README.md, before:

WASH
====
wash is bash written like it should be in 2012! 
About a decade ago started to write my own little interpreter wsbasic to learn how to write a compiler without lex/yacc. Always had the intention to make it a bash alternative, but never got around to it. This weekend finally started to implement it.

```
Walters-MacBook-Pro:wash wschrep$ make
...
g++  -O2 -Wall -o wash wash.o number.o lexer.o parser.o treenode.o executer.o -lreadline


Walters-MacBook-Pro:wash wschrep$ ./wash 
  _____                  ____            ______   ____   ____ 
 |\    \   _____    ____|\   \       ___|\     \ |    | |    |
 | |    | /    /|  /    /\    \     |    |\     \|    | |    |
 \/     / |    || |    |  |    |    |    |/____/||    |_|    |
 /     /_  \   \/ |    |__|    | ___|    \|   | ||    .-.    |
|     // \  \   \ |    .--.    ||    \    \___|/ |    | |    |
|    |/   \ |    ||    |  |    ||    |\     \    |    | |    |
|\ ___/\   \|   /||____|  |____||\ ___\|_____|   |____| |____|
| |   | \______/ ||    |  |    || |    |     |   |    | |    |
 \|___|/\ |    | ||____|  |____| \|____|_____|   |____| |____|
    \(   \|____|/   \(      )/      \(    )/       \(     )/
     '      )/       '      '        '    '         '     '  
            ' Bash needs a wash after 2 decades ;)

wash$ 

So that's what you see after running make && ./wash

WASH is an awesome bash alternative written by Walter Schreppers on a sunday 7/10/2012 ;)
Typing quit or exit is the only way to exit !
Auto completion is partly implemented, also command history is done with arrow keys up/down.

Little demo here:

wash$ ls

Makefile     examples     executer.h   lexer.cpp    lexer.o      ntree.cpp    number.h     parser.cpp   parser.o     treenode.cpp treenode.o   wash.cpp     wsbasic
README.md    executer.cpp executer.o   lexer.h      main.cpp     number.cpp   number.o     parser.h     tokens.h     treenode.h   wash         wash.o

wash$ println("hello world") println(3*4)
hello world
12

wash$ a=run("date") println("The date is "+a)
The date is Sun Oct  7 23:15:32 CEST 2012

wash$ for i=1 to 5 print( run("date") )
Mon Oct  8 10:05:48 CEST 2012
Mon Oct  8 10:05:48 CEST 2012
Mon Oct  8 10:05:48 CEST 2012
Mon Oct  8 10:05:48 CEST 2012
Mon Oct  8 10:05:48 CEST 2012

wash$ nr=0 foreach line in run("ls -l") begin print nr println "\t"+line nr=nr+1 end
0 total 960
1 -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff     929 Oct  7 22:29 Makefile
2 -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff    2295 Oct  8 10:08 README.md
3 drwxr-xr-x@ 17 wschrep  staff     578 Oct  7 22:30 examples
4 -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff   14497 Oct  7 22:36 executer.cpp
5 -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    2458 Oct  7 22:29 executer.h
6 -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff   57296 Oct 12 13:24 executer.o
7 -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    5259 Oct 12 14:39 lexer.cpp
8 -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    1237 Oct  7 22:29 lexer.h
9 -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff   10976 Oct 12 14:39 lexer.o
10  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff     958 Oct  7 22:44 main.cpp
11  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    1941 Oct  7 22:29 ntree.cpp
12  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    4138 Oct  7 22:43 number.cpp
13  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    1670 Oct  7 22:42 number.h
14  -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff    9948 Oct 12 13:24 number.o
15  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff   19073 Oct 12 14:27 parser.cpp
16  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    2693 Oct 12 14:12 parser.h
17  -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff   34612 Oct 12 14:27 parser.o
18  -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff     815 Oct  7 22:29 tokens.h
19  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    5289 Oct  7 22:29 treenode.cpp
20  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    3518 Oct  7 22:45 treenode.h
21  -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff   15372 Oct 12 13:24 treenode.o
22  -rwxr-xr-x   1 wschrep  staff  115212 Oct 12 14:39 wash
23  -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff    7122 Oct 12 14:28 wash.cpp
24  -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff   14932 Oct 12 14:28 wash.o
25  -rwxr-xr-x   1 wschrep  staff  110080 Oct 12 14:39 wsbasic

Instead of typing begin/end you can also use the c-style brackets now:
wash$ for i=1 to 5 { println "i=",i print run("date") }
i=1
Fri Oct 12 14:50:29 CEST 2012
i=2
Fri Oct 12 14:50:29 CEST 2012
i=3
Fri Oct 12 14:50:29 CEST 2012
i=4
Fri Oct 12 14:50:29 CEST 2012
i=5
Fri Oct 12 14:50:29 CEST 2012

wash$ exit
Walters-MacBook-Pro:wash wschrep$
```

Also you now have a full calculator right in your shell, just use println to execute some expressions, here I show that operator presedence and braces work like you'd expect:

```
wash$ println ( (2*3)+4000/6 )
672.667
wash$ println ( 2*3+4000/6 )
672.667
wash$ println ( ((2*3)+4000)/6 )
667.667
wash$ println( 4006/6 )
667.667
wash$ println( 4000/6 )
666.667
wash$ println( 4000/6+6 )
672.667

Syntax etc is getting more type friendly every day ;)

wash$ for i=1 to 5 print run("date")
Fri Oct 19 17:28:24 CEST 2012
Fri Oct 19 17:28:24 CEST 2012
Fri Oct 19 17:28:24 CEST 2012
Fri Oct 19 17:28:24 CEST 2012
Fri Oct 19 17:28:24 CEST 2012

```



It's verry early alpha fase now. Not ready to use as main shell yet. For instance running any commands like top, ls, vim etc all work but you can't pass arguments yet ;)
Need to work on functions and multiple line scripts in interactive mode. Already fixed the feature so you don't need to enter begin/end around a single statement and added {,} shortcuts to
define scopes/blocks like in c.
Look in examples dir for some working scripts: it's already a complete programming language with functions and forloops etc.!

First up todo's are commands with arguments and then improve auto completion (just use code from this http://web.mit.edu/gnu/doc/html/rlman_2.html ).
Then it should already be a good enough replacement for bash for me ;). Will need more work on promts, environment vars etc like .bashrc => will make a .washrc.

I'm aware of zsh which is also cool indeed but I want a syntax more like ruby or other modern languages. Not something from the 90's for my shell ;).
Again making ruby as your shell is cool but it's bloated: wash is now only 120k! compared to bash'es +1Mb size. And it will stay small cause the largest part (programming language) is
already included!

```
Walters-MacBook-Pro:wash wschrep$ ls -lh wash
-rwxr-xr-x  1 wschrep  staff   113K Oct 12 14:39 wash

Walters-MacBook-Pro:wash wschrep$ ls -lh /bin/bash 
-r-xr-xr-x  1 root  wheel   1.3M Apr 17 20:34 /bin/bash
```

Commit message:

cleaned up, added all keywords to the auto complete. added little hack in lexer to support semi-colon's on single line to seperate statements...

README.md, after:

WASH
====
wash is bash written like it should be in 2012! 
About a decade ago started to write my own little interpreter wsbasic to learn how to write a compiler without lex/yacc. Always had the intention to make it a bash alternative, but never got around to it. This weekend finally started to implement it.

```
Walters-MacBook-Pro:wash wschrep$ make
...
g++  -O2 -Wall -o wash wash.o number.o lexer.o parser.o treenode.o executer.o -lreadline


Walters-MacBook-Pro:wash wschrep$ ./wash 
  _____                  ____            ______   ____   ____ 
 |\    \   _____    ____|\   \       ___|\     \ |    | |    |
 | |    | /    /|  /    /\    \     |    |\     \|    | |    |
 \/     / |    || |    |  |    |    |    |/____/||    |_|    |
 /     /_  \   \/ |    |__|    | ___|    \|   | ||    .-.    |
|     // \  \   \ |    .--.    ||    \    \___|/ |    | |    |
|    |/   \ |    ||    |  |    ||    |\     \    |    | |    |
|\ ___/\   \|   /||____|  |____||\ ___\|_____|   |____| |____|
| |   | \______/ ||    |  |    || |    |     |   |    | |    |
 \|___|/\ |    | ||____|  |____| \|____|_____|   |____| |____|
    \(   \|____|/   \(      )/      \(    )/       \(     )/
     '      )/       '      '        '    '         '     '  
            ' Bash needs a wash after 2 decades ;)

wash$ 

So that's what you see after running make && ./wash

WASH is an awesome bash alternative written by Walter Schreppers on a sunday 7/10/2012 ;)
Typing quit or exit is the only way to exit !
Auto completion is partly implemented, also command history is done with arrow keys up/down.

Little demo here:

wash$ ls

Makefile     examples     executer.h   lexer.cpp    lexer.o      ntree.cpp    number.h     parser.cpp   parser.o     treenode.cpp treenode.o   wash.cpp     wsbasic
README.md    executer.cpp executer.o   lexer.h      main.cpp     number.cpp   number.o     parser.h     tokens.h     treenode.h   wash         wash.o

wash$ println("hello world") println(3*4)
hello world
12

wash$ a=run("date") println("The date is "+a)
The date is Sun Oct  7 23:15:32 CEST 2012

wash$ for i=1 to 5 print( run("date") )
Mon Oct  8 10:05:48 CEST 2012
Mon Oct  8 10:05:48 CEST 2012
Mon Oct  8 10:05:48 CEST 2012
Mon Oct  8 10:05:48 CEST 2012
Mon Oct  8 10:05:48 CEST 2012

wash$ nr=0 foreach line in run("ls -l") begin print nr println "\t"+line nr=nr+1 end
0 total 960
1 -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff     929 Oct  7 22:29 Makefile
2 -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff    2295 Oct  8 10:08 README.md
3 drwxr-xr-x@ 17 wschrep  staff     578 Oct  7 22:30 examples
4 -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff   14497 Oct  7 22:36 executer.cpp
5 -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    2458 Oct  7 22:29 executer.h
6 -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff   57296 Oct 12 13:24 executer.o
7 -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    5259 Oct 12 14:39 lexer.cpp
8 -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    1237 Oct  7 22:29 lexer.h
9 -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff   10976 Oct 12 14:39 lexer.o
10  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff     958 Oct  7 22:44 main.cpp
11  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    1941 Oct  7 22:29 ntree.cpp
12  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    4138 Oct  7 22:43 number.cpp
13  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    1670 Oct  7 22:42 number.h
14  -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff    9948 Oct 12 13:24 number.o
15  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff   19073 Oct 12 14:27 parser.cpp
16  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    2693 Oct 12 14:12 parser.h
17  -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff   34612 Oct 12 14:27 parser.o
18  -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff     815 Oct  7 22:29 tokens.h
19  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    5289 Oct  7 22:29 treenode.cpp
20  -rw-r--r--@  1 wschrep  staff    3518 Oct  7 22:45 treenode.h
21  -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff   15372 Oct 12 13:24 treenode.o
22  -rwxr-xr-x   1 wschrep  staff  115212 Oct 12 14:39 wash
23  -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff    7122 Oct 12 14:28 wash.cpp
24  -rw-r--r--   1 wschrep  staff   14932 Oct 12 14:28 wash.o
25  -rwxr-xr-x   1 wschrep  staff  110080 Oct 12 14:39 wsbasic

Instead of typing begin/end you can also use the c-style brackets now:
wash$ for i=1 to 5 { println "i=",i print run("date") }
i=1
Fri Oct 12 14:50:29 CEST 2012
i=2
Fri Oct 12 14:50:29 CEST 2012
i=3
Fri Oct 12 14:50:29 CEST 2012
i=4
Fri Oct 12 14:50:29 CEST 2012
i=5
Fri Oct 12 14:50:29 CEST 2012

wash$ exit
Walters-MacBook-Pro:wash wschrep$
```

Also you now have a full calculator right in your shell, just use println to execute some expressions, here I show that operator presedence and braces work like you'd expect:

```
wash$ println ( (2*3)+4000/6 )
672.667
wash$ println ( 2*3+4000/6 )
672.667
wash$ println ( ((2*3)+4000)/6 )
667.667
wash$ println( 4006/6 )
667.667
wash$ println( 4000/6 )
666.667
wash$ println( 4000/6+6 )
672.667

Syntax etc is getting more type friendly every day ;)

wash$ for i=1 to 5 print run("date")
Fri Oct 19 17:28:24 CEST 2012
Fri Oct 19 17:28:24 CEST 2012
Fri Oct 19 17:28:24 CEST 2012
Fri Oct 19 17:28:24 CEST 2012
Fri Oct 19 17:28:24 CEST 2012


Just added semi-colon support and all keywords in auto complete if you press tab on empty line:

wash$ 
           <          =          >          and        by         end        for        if         input      number     print      quit       seperated  string     to         write      
           !=         <=         ==         >=         begin      else       exit       foreach    in         not        or         println    run        step       substr     while      

wash$ for i=1 to 10; print(i);println("");
12345678910


```



It's verry early alpha fase now. Not ready to use as main shell yet. For instance running any commands like top, ls, vim etc all work but you can't pass arguments yet ;)
Need to work on functions and multiple line scripts in interactive mode. Already fixed the feature so you don't need to enter begin/end around a single statement and added {,} shortcuts to
define scopes/blocks like in c.
Look in examples dir for some working scripts: it's already a complete programming language with functions and forloops etc.!

First up todo's are commands with arguments and then improve auto completion (just use code from this http://web.mit.edu/gnu/doc/html/rlman_2.html ).
Then it should already be a good enough replacement for bash for me ;). Will need more work on promts, environment vars etc like .bashrc => will make a .washrc.

I'm aware of zsh which is also cool indeed but I want a syntax more like ruby or other modern languages. Not something from the 90's for my shell ;).
Again making ruby as your shell is cool but it's bloated: wash is now only 120k! compared to bash'es +1Mb size. And it will stay small cause the largest part (programming language) is
already included!

```
Walters-MacBook-Pro:wash wschrep$ ls -lh wash
-rwxr-xr-x  1 wschrep  staff   113K Oct 12 14:39 wash

Walters-MacBook-Pro:wash wschrep$ ls -lh /bin/bash 
-r-xr-xr-x  1 root  wheel   1.3M Apr 17 20:34 /bin/bash
```
